.TH XMINESWEEP 1 "11 November 1992"
.SH NAME
xminesweep \- A mine-sweeper game.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xminesweep
[
.I toolkit options
]
[
.I -mines <num> 
]
[
.I -ncH <numHigh>
]
[
.I -ncW <numWide>
]
[
.I -sound
]
[
.I -nosound
]

where 
.I <num>
is the number of mines in the playing field.
.I <numHigh>
is the number of squares high.
.I <numWide> 
is the number of squares wide.
.I -sound
turns sound on.
.I -nosound
turns sound off.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B xminesweep 
will start up with a window full of cells. clicking on one with the 
left mouse button will 'expose' it (and if there is a mine there you 
will die!). Clicking in a cell with the right mouse button will either
mark or unmark it as a 'Mine'. If you click in the cell with the middle 
mouse button you can toggle a 'questioned' image, you can expose and mark
a questioned cell. There is also a fast expose feature, clicking on an 
exposed number with the left mouse button and holding down the shift key
will, if there are the correct number of cells marked, expose all unmarked
squares. Be warned the if you mark the wrong cells you could expose a mine
and die!

The object is to mark all the mines in the playing field. When a 'Cell' is 
exposed, and it is not a mine, it will contain a number \- this number is the
number of mines in the eight Cells around it (blank = zero).

If you miss a mine (mark a square that is not a mine), and then the mine count
gets to zero, you will loose because you got one wrong!.

.SH OTHER CONTROLS
There are two buttons in the top part of the window, one will make 
.B xminesweep
exit, the other will restart the current game (and rearrange the mines).

There is also a text box which displays the number of mines in the playing
field, you can change the value in this and then press [Enter] and the game 
will restart with the new number of mines. (nothing will happen of the number
is the same). There is a limited range for the number of mines, it is between
1 and (DEFAULT_NUM_MINES/3). 

When you die, all the Cells will be exposed, any mines that you marked will
be shown with the marked image, any Cells that you marked but are not mines
will be shown with the wrong-mark image, and any unmarked mines will be shown
as mines.

There is a cheat option that can be set at compile time. It will give you a
good start by finding a cell with no mines surounding it an pretend that you
clicked on it to expose it. If you keep doing this you will get all the cells
with no mines around exposed and a realy good start. The default key sequence
to use this cheat is "<Control> <Shift> C", where the <Control> and <Shift>
keys are held down and the C key is pressed twice. (like a double mouse click).
This must be done with the mouse over one of the cells.

.B xminesweep
will take all the normal Athena Widget 
.I toolkit options
it is given. 

.SH RESOURCES

.B xminesweep
will accept these special resources:

XMinesweep*mines:

XMinesweep*numCellsHigh:

XMinesweep*numCellsWide:

XMinesweep*sound:  [True or False]

They correspond to the command line options -mines, -ncH, -ncW and -[no]sound.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Ashley Roll
-- aroll@gucis.cit.gu.edu.au

